I'm gonna say now that this course gets
significantly harder from this point
forward.
I apologize.
I frequently got the feedback in
the first time that I did this,
that the first parts people felt
really good about themselves.
They were getting everything, and
then they hit the JavaScript portion,
they hit the wall.
We're gonna go slow, but
the other thing I'm gonna tell you is,
this is just harder, right?
There's more stuff going on here.
This is the more difficult portion of this
for someone that hasn't programmed before.
If you've programmed before,
a lot of this will look somewhat familiar.
But again, remember this course is
geared towards people that haven't
programmed before.
So, bear with me through
the basics here and
hopefully you'll learn tidbits about
programming that you didn't know before.
I promise you there's stuff in
here that will help everybody.
Okay, So, What is code?
And I think my answer might
surprise a lot of people.
People think it's something that
humans work really hard on so
that computers will do the thing
that you tell them to do.
Partial definition, I think is correct.
But I'm gonna argue the code is for
humans first and computers second.
And the reason why I say
that is you write code so
that later you can go back and
maintain that code.
If we were writing code purely for
computers, you and
I would be both writing
Assembly right now.
Or directly to binary, because that will
make it go faster, guaranteed, right?
JavaScript has a lot of overhead just in
terms of it's a very high level language.
There's a lot of layers to
get JavaScript to work, so
why do we choose to write JavaScript
instead of C or Assembly?
It's because it's easier for
humans to understand and
maintain and continue forward with.
So I want you to keep that in
mind when you're writing code,
that you're writing this so
that someone later can read it.
You're not writing it so
that your program will work correctly,
necessarily, you're doing that as well.
But you're writing it so
that you can come back and
understand what you were thinking,
understand what you were trying to do, and
then if there's a bug in
there be able to fix it.
So another way I like thinking about this,
which I put here in my notes,
is you're essentially writing notes to
yourself about how to solve a problem that
a computer can understand.
That's how I view code.
Why is this an important distinction?
Because we're really tempted to write
the most clever code possible, right?
Have you ever heard of
what's called code golf?
It's basically people try and
write code that it's the smallest
thing possible to solve some problem.
So you've seen people that can write
full video games in three kilobytes of
JavaScript.
It's just bonkers, some of
the things that people do with code.
Just Google it, code golf,
there's some wild things out there.
And the code that they have to do to
be able to achieve that is so clever.
It's unreadably clever.
Don't do that,
[LAUGH] unless you're doing code golf,
you don't want your code to be clever.
You want your code to be clear, succinct,
to the point, all these kinds of things.
Yeah, I've had to maintain code
that's 10 years old, 15 years old,
20 years old, and
the code that's really well written,
makes it feel really nice to try and
maintain that code.
Even if it's using really old style and
techniques and stuff like that,
if it's well documented and well thought
out and clearly laid out, it's no problem.
But then I had to maintain
this just bananas PHP for
in-memory graph database
that someone invented.
And it was just written in just the most
opaque, weird style of writing code.
They used single letter variables and
a bunch of stuff like that.
It was like a nightmare.
One of the worst parts of my career is
trying to maintain this person's really
old, terrible code.
So, all this is,
I will probably be your coworker some day.
This is my plea to you to write clear
code so that we can both understand it.
Okay, be explicit.
It's okay to write more
code to be more explicit.
Computers are really fast these days.
So for the most part, you can take a
little bit of performance hit to be extra
clear on things, optimized for
humans first and computers later.
Okay, that's my spiel to you, I start
with that because I want you to take that
ethos with you of, I'm gonna write
clear code that I can understand.